---
layout: post
title:  "什么是Git"
date:   2019-01-02
categories: 编程
tags: 编程
author: 语聆
---

嗨，2019年来了。

新年好。




## 什么是 git?

Git 是一个**免费开源**的**分布式版本**控制系统，它可以高效的处理任何项目，无论是小的还是非常大的。

Git 很容易学，脚本小，性能快。它集合了SCM （软件配置管理）工具，比如Subversion, CVS, Perforce 及 ClearCase， 这些工具都有这么些功能，

比如便宜的**本地分支管理**，**方便的暂存区域**及**多个工作流**。


## 什么是 git 分支?


Branching and Merging
The Git feature that really makes it stand apart from nearly every other SCM out there is its branching model.

Git allows and encourages you to have multiple local branches that can be entirely independent of each other. The creation, merging, and deletion of those lines of development takes seconds.

This means that you can do things like:

Frictionless Context Switching. Create a branch to try out an idea, commit a few times, switch back to where you branched from, apply a patch, switch back to where you are experimenting, and merge it in.
Role-Based Codelines. Have a branch that always contains only what goes to production, another that you merge work into for testing, and several smaller ones for day to day work.
Feature Based Workflow. Create new branches for each new feature you're working on so you can seamlessly switch back and forth between them, then delete each branch when that feature gets merged into your main line.
Disposable Experimentation. Create a branch to experiment in, realize it's not going to work, and just delete it - abandoning the work—with nobody else ever seeing it (even if you've pushed other branches in the meantime).
Branches

Notably, when you push to a remote repository, you do not have to push all of your branches. You can choose to share just one of your branches, a few of them, or all of them. This tends to free people to try new ideas without worrying about having to plan how and when they are going to merge it in or share it with others.

There are ways to accomplish some of this with other systems, but the work involved is much more difficult and error-prone. Git makes this process incredibly easy and it changes the way most developers work when they learn it.


## 什么是 git orphan 分支?


## 参考文献

 + [Git官网](https://git-scm.com/)

## CHANGELOG

- 20190102 语聆
